greetings everyone in North and South
America Asia Europe Australia New
Zealand and all across Africa
lászló Montgomery here with another
episode of the China history podcast we
returned today after a one-week hiatus
from the history and today we will look
at the fabled Three Kingdoms period the
Sun washer died this was a period of
about 60 years that lasted from the time
of the last Han Emperor Shen T who
abdicated in favour of south-south son
it's all P in 220 ad until the time of
the fall of the Eastern Wu by the forces
of the Ching dynasty of the suma family
then we'll go beyond the Three Kingdoms
period and look at the time of all these
smaller kingdoms and various dynasties
that preceded the later unification of
China under the sway the three kingdoms
were way Schewel and there were three
families that's how lil and swim however
for the Three Kingdoms period we often
refer to the contenders as hallway Shu
Han and dong woo the northernmost and
most populous the hallway was called
thus to show the linkage between the way
dynasty and the hall family who founded
it the Shu dynasty out west and su chuan
to cement its own claim to legitimacy
was called the Shu hun remember the Shu
dynasty was founded by the great in the
obey now if you recall the Han Dynasty
was founded by the Leal family remember
Leo Poong
he was the founder of the Han Dynasty
who later reigned as the emperor hongou
su well they'll pay some 400 to 75 years
later using this proven lineage to the
Han Emperor JD claims his legitimacy by
linking his Schewel kingdom to the hot
calling it Shu Han in this podcast we're
gonna look more at the history rather
than the specifics of the novel Romance
of the Three Kingdoms written during the
late 1300s by the writer Leo qin qiong
he lived during the late un dynasty
that's the
uN of Kublai Khan Fame and also the
early Ming Dynasty you may recall we
covered the founding of the UN and the
time of Kublai Khan in an earlier
podcast episode back in August I
encourage anyone who loves ancient
Imperial Chinese history and culture to
read this novel Romance of the Three
Kingdoms it's hard to keep all the
characters straight but if you have some
sort of study guide to keep track of
who's who it's an enjoyable read
actually I can tell you I found plenty
of resources available on the web to
help keep everything straight this novel
it's stories and characters are very
deeply ingrained in the culture of the
Chinese and is admired still today
everybody growing up in the Chinese
speaking world is quite familiar with
most of the main characters and stories
this Three Kingdoms period actually
starts during the Yellow Turban
rebellion in 184 more than the
traditional historical starting point of
220 ad the Yellow Turban rebellion or
Wong changer one was the moment in
Chinese history when all these various
centers of power all grew powerful
quickly after the yellow turbans were
subdued these were noble families acting
as the Han Emperor's military proxies to
put this rebellion down but unlike
Cincinnatus and George Washington these
guys didn't lay down their weapons and
go home after the job was done they
started to fight amongst themselves all
the while the Han Emperor still sat on
his throne utterly powerless and simply
a pawn in a great game and as we
examined in the last podcast these
several states kingdoms or whatever you
want to call them in the end were
reduced down to three its Holloway Shu
hun and dong woo and it's these three
plus the Jin and the chaos that followed
the Jin that we will look at today now
in addition to the sanguine a E or the
romance of the three kingdoms by Leo
quantum you also had a historical work
called the Sun watcher or the record of
the Three Kingdoms one a work of fiction
based on history
the other is a record of history so
we'll focus on what the Sun Quarter said
rather than Leo Quan Jones novel the Sun
Quarter record of the three kingdoms was
written by John Shaw who was an officer
in the Shu Han Kingdom who later served
in the jean court after they bumped off
the last of the three kingdoms and
unified China so this work if not
influenced by the victors at the time it
was written was a pretty good record of
what transpired during this period now
the first bit of action you get during
this three kingdoms perry had happened
real fast the first major battle was
between Leo Bay's Shu Han in the West
and Swift ran of Wu
this was the Battle of Yi Ling Leo Bey
was furious that one of his most trusted
generals Guan Yu had been captured and
executed by the wall and he swore to
avenge the death of this most loyal and
righteous comrade who had been at his
side since the Yellow Turban rebellion
you might do another podcast one day
just on Guan Yu who is one of the most
central characters in the novel Romance
of the Three Kingdoms you see little
statues and shrines to Guan Yu in a lot
of shops and restaurants around Asia and
especially in southern China Hong Kong
and Taiwan here at the Ling Li obey
suffered a nasty defeat at the hands of
some trans general Liu Xun now this
battle is also referred to in history as
the Battle of shouting this was in 222
this would be in what is present-day yi
qiang in Hebei province there leo bei
was soundly defeated and all thoughts of
quickly extinguishing the eastern wall
were dashed on the plains of ely after
the Obey suffered this defeat he
retreated to bite each hung and died
there the following year so the obey is
gone by 223 AD and he was a real giant
of this period from the eastern Han to
this time of the establishment of the
Three Kingdoms
you can visit Neal Bay's tomb in the
capital city of Sichuan in Chengdu now I
haven't mentioned them yet but now with
the obeys death it's as
time is Eddie to introduce the great
Jukka young now quick word about his
surname as most of you know most all
Chinese surnames are one syllable Wong
Lee drew Luhan huijeong tongue but you
have just a few that are two syllable
surnames we've already discussed one a
number of times so much him suma is one
such compound Chinese family name Oh
yang is another subbu and Jukka are are
others there aren't that many and in my
travels I haven't run into too many
Chinese with these double surnames or
fushing soju kaliya although I am only
mentioning him now after the Battle of
Ealing he's been around for a while he
joined the Obey in 207 in that year juga
Liang outlined to Lee obey his strategy
which was called the Long John plan or
long Chung day this involves setting up
a base of operations in the south of
China and from this southern stronghold
launched attacks against the north and
to the east to ultimately defeats
hallway and the eastern thereby unifying
the country and restoring the Han which
of course was the mantle claimed by Lee
obeys Xu Han Kingdom and although the
initial goal was to defeat the stronger
way Kingdom to the north that controlled
the Yellow River Basin the plan first
called for an alliance with the rule
Kingdom to defeat way and then to turn
on Wu and defeat them after Lee obeyed
died in the fortress said id Chung Jugal
yang also referred to as crouching
dragon became second in command of the
Xu Han Kingdom under lil BAE's son Leo
Zhang Liang being young and all left
affairs of the Shu Han Kingdom - chuckle
young who needed time to build up the
power there juga Liang entered into an
alliance with the eastern wall against
the more powerful so away to the north
druga Leon also pacified the southern
tribes and integrated them into his
military and they served to beef up the
Xu Han forces when they squared off
later against the Solway in 227
Colleen launched his first five
so-called northern expeditions against
Holloway only one of the five met with
any success and Jukka Leon died in 234
during a final campaign juga Leon's
successor as Regents to the Emperor
hyungwon didn't have the stomach for war
that Jukka Leung had and he pulled back
in 241 and from that point on Xu Han was
in a defensive position until they were
in the end the first of the three
kingdoms to be overthrown which we'll
get to shortly his nemesis in the
northern expeditions was one samaa who
will also get to in a moment
once Jukka Liang passes from the scene
it's sort of all downhill for the Xu Han
now there's a lot more to it and we have
many characters involved in the ultimate
destruction of Xu Han such as zhang wei
dong i and on one side and that jung way
defending the Xu Han now all this time
the eastern wall were constantly bad
against the more numerous and superior
it's highway forces everyone was always
trying to trick one another by
pretending alliances and pretending
weaknesses are pretending strengths that
didn't exist in fact this whole period
is rife with one skirmish or battle
after another but mostly it was Shu and
Wu against wait the wool kingdom was
almost always under the control of the
very same swing Shen whose generals had
outsmarted South sales forces at Red
Cliff he had some staying power and
lived to the age of 70 or long enough to
see his wool kingdom begin to decline
which was already doing in 252 when he
breathed his last despite the constant
warring the wool kingdom prospered
economically during US and trends reign
it wasn't a bad time there but up in the
North in hallway by the two 30s things
were starting to get dicey now the
kingdom of way as you know was ruled by
the family of salt ow his son it's how P
was the first emperor it had been ruled
using the harsh legalist principles of
the battled Chi Chuan
is the kingdom of Wei was in many ways a
military dictatorship led by this house
salts hell created a policy of
assimilating the Xiong nu and other
nomadic tribes and moved a lot of them
into Shaanxi province these northern
step people really made up Salt's house
best soldiers this process of bringing
in all these so-called barbarians into
the immediate China orbit and pressuring
them to assimilate had somewhat dire
consequences later on when these newly
saina sized barbarian tribes try and set
up their own dominions within China
proper now these Howell family had some
competition for power within way they
had to contend with the sumach clan yes
another compound Chinese surname that
you're familiar with from good old
somach in the kingdom of way by 2:30 was
still controlled by these Howell clan
the suma family was a great land holding
family during the Han and also now under
the way were they served at the courts M
II's successful defense against the
invading forces of juga Leon from Shu
Han gained the family even more power in
a claim now Asuma he he had a grandson
named Simeon who we'll get to as soon as
things come to a crashing conclusion for
the Three Kingdoms period in China once
again is unified albeit briefly no
Somali he had served under sults how and
under its house house son Sal P when he
became the Emperor of way he served Sal
P most loyally and his good deeds were
amply rewarded as he grew in power in
the kingdom of way but the inner sanctum
of way which of course was ruled by the
descendants of salsa was extremely
political and nasty deeds Hall family
which included the Emperor and all the
various other Taos who surrounded him
became somewhat wary of Samui and did
their best to separate him from the
government they bestowed all kinds of
honors on him for his great job as a
military leader but kept him at bay
inside the corridors of power in 247
Somali tired of all the backstabbing and
attempts to marginalize them simply
retired from serve
the Emperor at the time or the heads how
was at Sol Shuang yes the story goes
when Sal Shuang sent an invoice to see
what was up with some ie Sigma acted
insane and deceived them into thinking
he had indeed become mentally ill so
their guards down the hall ruler and his
various other it's house sort of took
their eyes off some I eat and then in
two forty nine Somali staged a coup and
overthrew Sal Shuang and his gang and
had them all executed now back when some
ie served under tilts how the great
general had said back then to look out
for this guy because he had ambitions of
power so this prophecy had come true
symma e consolidated his power quickly
and by the time of his death in 251 his
Simha clan had replaced its house as the
rulers of tal way by 263 the way
conquered the shoe or the Shu Han of lil
BAE's family this campaign against the
shoe was known in Mandarin as the way
via Shu George on the shoe was the
easier Kingdom to beat and they lacked
the huge advantage that the Eastern Wu
had in the Yangtze River region the shoe
kingdom had the smallest population and
besides this despite the relative
disadvantage against our way
they were always pecking at them and
striking out against the way so they had
to go so as I mentioned earlier the shoe
kingdom goes first one down one to go
only way and who left standing samaya
he was succeeded by his son Sam Asher
who spent his remaining four years
fending off that's house and their
supporters he died in battle in 255 and
was succeeded by his brother Samad Chou
now mind you up in tall way the Emperor
of the eight Sal family still sat on his
throne but all power was firmly in the
hands of the seumas and Samaha was able
to pick up where his brother left off
fending off plots against him and
controlling things back in the capital
in law yang cemaat job later had himself
named king of jin and had been busy sort
of laying the groundwork for a
usurpation of
power from the hall family he didn't
live to do it but his son Somalian who
succeeded him in 265 did the deed and
deposed the Emperor and that was the end
of the kingdom of way orts Holloway now
it became the kingdom of Jean and
somalian was the first emperor and
reigned as Emperor or King D that's Jin
for the dynasty name was his posthumous
name and D of course after so many
podcasts you probably know means Emperor
so Jin D Emperor Wu of Jin at once he
began stuffing the kingdom's important
offices with all his relatives and did
the same old thing that the Cho Dynasty
Emperor's had done with the infant
system and each principality had its own
military command and regional authority
on the one hand this made for effective
governance but China by this time had
plenty of instances where when power was
divvied out to the outlying regions they
sooner or later created mischief and
caused all kinds of grief for the
central authority as they of course
learned back in the Western Jo times so
the time of Simha yen or Jing Wu D was a
good one if you were a noble they were
given a lot of power on perks which they
took full advantage of and semi yen or
Ching Wu D was known as an extremely
wasteful an extravagant Emperor China's
population during this time had been
greatly reduced to somewhere around 16
million and jinwoo D the Emperor he had
10,000 concubines who stood by to serve
his needs whatever they may be 10,000
concubines it would take him 27 years
just to be with each one if he had only
one concubine per day well he reigned
for 25 years so who knows maybe he was
able to get to know them all now the
eastern Wu Kingdom no relation to
emperor of Qin was causing all kinds of
trouble militarily you had Emperor Wu of
gin and Emperor's son how of all these
tools are different Chinese characters
one is second tone ooh and one is third
tone you may recall the eastern
was the territory of the Sutton family
the founder of course banks wouldn't ran
by 280
symma yen had defeated them and he was
the last one standing
he had usurped power from the hallway
rulers gone on to defeat the shoe and
then turned his might on the last of the
three kingdoms the eastern rule so
that's the end of the Three Kingdoms
period so it wasn't 280 that China is
once again unified or unified to the
extent that the Jing rulers were able to
control the seeds of the dynasty's
destruction were so de mediately by
giving all this power to the Jin
Emperor's relatives the strategy had
been tried before and failed within a
decade that gene was already falling
apart Somalian or Emperor Ching Wu Dee
died in 289 and was succeeded by a weak
son this muddle-headed Emperor the son
of Somalian notas Emperor Wei was the
butt of many a good Chinese historical
joke he is known as a simple-minded fool
and it's no wonder things began to fall
apart so quickly emperor kwai was
murdered in 306
although fate wasn't too kind to this
Emperor at least he didn't suffer the
fate of the last emperor of the Western
gene who followed him this was the
tragic Emperor mene mene mene mene was
his posthumous name and and mean means
pity are suffering now this Jin mandi he
was the grandson of the Qin Dynasty
founder Wudi he took over from the
poisoned emperor wei d when he was 43
years of age so now he rules from Chung
on but Chung on by the time he said on
the throne his Emperor was a shell of a
city the city width was almost abandoned
there was famine everywhere even the
Emperor had nothing to eat by the time
he surrendered to the invading show-nu
general yo-yo there was nothing left of
this once great city that had been the
center of the world at one time and for
a mean surrendered and was made to walk
the streets stripped to the waist
leading a sheep in one hand and on the
other hand pulling a coffin carriage and
to make the humiliation worse he had to
carry the Imperial seal the symbol of
his authority and a string that he held
between his teeth this wasn't the end of
the last emperor of Western Jin he was
then taken as a prisoner back to the
Xiong nu capital of pingyang the king of
this show new state of Han JA was a guy
named Li Oates home he made this former
Western Jean Emperor wear the uniforms
of a servant and was made to serve like
a butler at many of the Kings official
and social functions and when he went
hunting the King would make the former
emperor mean run in front of the horse
with the dogs and finally he was put out
of his misery in his 47th year and
executed it was in 311 a landmark year
in Chinese history that the Jean were
kicked out of their capital in law yang
and this ancient city where Emperor's
had ruled for centuries upon centuries
was sacked and burned to the ground the
Jean Nobles had already hightailed it to
the south below the Yanks in the city of
Jin Cong or modern-day Nanjing with the
sack of law Yang and 311 the Western
Jean came to a crashing end now the
eastern jin was established and from 317
to 420 which is just over a century this
dynasty marched on now ahead of the
establishment of the eastern Jean you
had a very large migration of northern
Chinese who were escaping the ravages of
the show-nu and all the famine and
difficulties up north they fled to the
south in and around the Anza these
people by the way these northern cook or
or guest people who migrated from the
north to the south were a mix of both
Xiong nu and Han people well these
became known as the Hakka people I'm
sure many of you have heard of them the
Hakka people played an immense role in
the history of China that followed like
the Cantonese and the Fujian ease the
Hakka were one of the great groups of
people who made up the so called Chinese
diaspora so you have Hakka people all
over the world Huck is Cantonese for
guests and
means family or people in mandarin
they're called the coach Aaron
so after the show new sex law young and
this mass migration occurred from north
to south
besides the Jean Court and Nobles you
also had all these guest people who now
greatly expanded the population on the
south and sort of evened out the
population between the north of the
country by the Yellow River with the
southern part of the country where the
young so river flowed now I promise once
we get past the north-south dynasties
it's all smooth sailing to the Last
Emperor Puyi if we can just suffer
through the nun Beach Hall from 386 to
581 then the worst is over well there's
a brief 72 period after they Tong Falls
where you have the Five Dynasties and
ten kingdoms period I'll tell you it's
really exhausting this time period
there's so many details and stories and
battles to contend with the first
emperor of the Eastern Qin was still of
the Sigma clan he was Somali who ruled
as the Qin Emperor urine or junior and
deep now he's a great-grandson of Somali
so he has some good bloodlines he was
down in the South already when word had
come of the murder of the pitiful
Emperor Amin
so this Somali declared himself emperor
of the Eastern King in the new capital
of GA yeah or Jin Cong as it's now known
starting in the Eastern Chin period we
know it today of course as Nanjing the
eastern jin pretty much degrades in no
time at all to the period known as the
sixteen kingdoms from 304 to 439 now who
were these sixteen kingdoms or states if
you recall during the Three Kingdoms
period it's all tau had integrated all
these non Han barbarian tribes into tal
way to serve in the military and work on
infrastructure projects farm the land
these people were known as the woohoo or
the five barbarians
these will whole people rose to power in
the wake of the devastating war of the
8th Prince's or the by want or want that
weakened the Western Jin to the point
where later they were easily kicked out
of their northern
a base this war of the a princess
spelled the beginning of the end for the
Emperor way and then the for the pitiful
Emperor mean it all started after the
passing of the Jin dynasty founder
Emperor Wu these eight princes were all
of the cemaat clan and given power at
the outset by the first emperor Jinyu D
and they all fought amongst themselves
until there was only one left standing
but the resulting devastation to put
down this revolt weakened the Jin to the
point where the whoo-hooo people were
able to turn on them and as we know in
311 with the sacking of law young and
316 after the sack of Chang An they
forced them to flee to the south to the
lands of the former eastern wool kingdom
where the eastern Jean was set up
so this sixteen kingdoms period well for
the most part these were kingdoms of
these wool people more than Han Chinese
the first of the sixteen kingdoms to
rebel and break away from the Jean was
the hangzhou kingdom led by the Xiong nu
leader Lillian this resulting sixteen
kingdoms period consisted of a hundred
and thirty more years of fighting
between all these petty kingdoms and
competing States northern China was not
the place to be during this time of the
sixteen kingdoms so you can say that the
advancement of Chinese civilization sort
of slowed down during this well not
really Dark Age like Europe suffered
beginning in the fifth and sixth
centuries but it was a rather unpleasant
time in China and as dark and age as
there ever was back then another of the
sixteen kingdoms was the zsa kingdom of
the gia people they were a people who
were part of the show new confederation
there was a king sure look who founded
the kingdom known as the later ja which
was located around hub a sure look like
EO UN before him was a rebel who rose up
against the Western gene and he's
credited by the way with the sack of
Loya in 311 he was instrumental in
booting the Jin out of the north and he
set up his own kingdom called the later
ja kingdom two differentiated from the
former job that had just been overthrown
this
sure look was famous for embracing
Buddhism and doing quite a bit to
establish it in his kingdom the eastern
Jin was recovering down in Nanjing and
by 406 they were powerful enough to the
extent that they sent one of their
generals Leo Youth to take back the
northern territories lost to the
whoo-whoo disturbances so 409 to 416 Leo
you and his forces begin to take it all
back and this they did all the territory
south of the Yellow River was ultimately
won back by the Jin forces so the
eastern jin enjoys a bit of a comeback
thanks to the military genius of vou
they took back the ancient capitals of
law young and chung-yong although they
couldn't quite hold Chung on and ended
up losing it again one thing to note
during this period of relative chaos
Buddhism was really starting to take
hold and it had already been introduced
into the country but from here on out
from the period of the sixteen kingdoms
and also during the period we've yet to
discuss the five dynasties in the south
Buddhism begins to truly take hold all
over China and we'll come back another
day and focus in on how Buddhism became
such a major force in Chinese culture
for now just be aware that during this
time of the Han the three kingdoms and
now the time of the sixteen kingdoms and
five dynasties Buddhism now was here to
stay this is a very interesting time in
northern China and that all these
barbarian tribes which included the
Xiong nu of course and the Shen Bey and
Wan nomadic people among others six of
the sixteen kingdoms were led by people
of these Shen Bay tribes
despite being nomadic people of the
steppes and Manchuria these barbarian
tribesmen really took to Chinese culture
and like you'll see with the Mongols
during the year-end dynasty and the
Manchus of the Ching they became
completely saina sized and you might say
the superiority of Chinese culture sort
of turned these barbarians into
full-fledged Han well not ethnically of
course but certainly in terms of the
shared Han Chinese culture
sensibilities and values so the
floodgates sort of opened during the
time of tal tau and his policy to use
them as additional labor and for
military uses in this wave of northern
nomadic people these barbarians for lack
of a better word just sort of moved in
and began mixing with the Han Chinese
and we're all turned into civilised
Chinese themselves so Leo used northern
expeditions win back this northern
territory including boyoung as I
mentioned and they didn't vanquish
everyone but they managed to win back a
sizable amount of territory then Leo you
seize the moment and ended up founding
his own dynasty this one called the Leo
son this son Leo Song Dynasty also went
down in history as the former song or
the southern song to differentiate it
from the more famous northern song
dynasty of 962 11:27 this southern song
dynasty lasted from 420 to 479
essentially Leo you fresh from his
victories in the north puts an end to
the eastern jin in 420 and it's then
that he establishes this southern Song
Dynasty and we're gonna stop here and
pick up next time with the period of the
nan beige hall or the southern and
northern dynasties period that lasted
from 420 to 589 this was the period that
preceded the Sui dynasty that unified
China once again and of course the Sui
dynasty sort of goes hand-in-hand with
the tang dynasty this was a lot to throw
at you I know this time of the three
kingdoms Western and Eastern gene and
the sixteen kingdoms also known as the
period of disunity in China was a very
important time in Chinese history and
the development of Chinese culture many
of the legends and stories that came
from this period are still told today
and have been popularized not only in
novels and Chinese cinema and TV but
also very much so in various kinds of
video games and comic books enjoyed by
young people all over Asia and not just
in the Chinese speaking world I've
you have the mass migrations of northern
Chinese and nomadic people down to the
less populated South which created a
rich new dynamic Buddhism was bringing
about all kinds of changes to both the
rulers and those who were ruled there
emerged a more refined kind of porcelain
where a kind of greenish proto celadon
during the Qin Dynasty in Taoism was
advanced a great deal and buried its
roots deeper into Chinese culture and
society it's a very difficult period of
time to present because well it's a lot
of characters a lot of people a lot of
battles names places kingdoms dynasties
emperors military men everything
overlapping one another so I've tried my
best to make sense of it and give you an
idea of these times to encapsulate these
two centuries from the fall of the
eastern Han in 220 to the establishment
of the southern Song in 420 you had the
sixty years of the Three Kingdoms period
from 220 to 280 followed by the Western
and Eastern Jin and then concurrently to
the eastern jin from 304 to 439 you had
the sixteen kingdoms up in the north of
China and I didn't really discuss the
so-called six dynasties the six
dynasties were made up of the eastern
rule kingdom of sunshine and his family
followed by the eastern jin dynasty and
now we have the leo song or the southern
song which is the third of the six
southern dynasties and they all have
their capital in nanjing anyway we'll
make sense of this all next time as we
look at the last of this period of
disunion and the Sui dynasty that takes
over in 589 and once again you have a
unified China well at least for another
three centuries but what a three
centuries that was so for now this is
Laszlo Montgomery once again wishing
everyone a fond and friendly farewell
from Claremont California I have yet
another wave of colleagues flying in
from Ning ba next week
so we'll be writing the next episode on
the road again this time I'm visiting my
old hometown of Chicago and then on to
Boca Raton Florida somehow someway we'll
get this episode on the non beach how
and sweet Dynasty produced until then
take care everyone feel free to send me
any comments or questions you may have
via my website at wwlp.com join us next
week won't you for another exciting
episode from the annals of Chinese
history